# ABCS Contacts

#### Advanced Biomedical Computational Science (ABCS) Director, [Jack Collins](mailto:collinja@mail.nih.gov)

The Advanced Biomedical Computational Science (ABCS) is part of the Biomedical Informatics and Data Science (BIDS) program and supports scientific research at the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research (FNLCR), NCI at Frederick, NCI in Bethesda, NIH, and other federal agencies. The ABCS provides bioinformatics, mathematical simulation and modeling, image analysis and visualization, chemoinformatics, proteomic analysis, data integration support for scientific projects through database maintenance and development, and scientific web application development.

#### Imaging and Visualization, [Yanling Liu](mailto:Yanling.Liu@nih.gov)

The Imaging and Visualization Group (IVG) supports and accelerates basic research by developing and implementing technologies in image analysis; scientific visualization; IT and software infrastructure; and services to facilitate data access, collaboration, and reuse; reduce duplicate efforts; and automate labor intensive workflows. Specific examples include 3-D electron microscopy (EM)/light microscopy (LM) image volume registration and web-based real-time visualization.

#### Structural Biology and Modeling, [Raul Cachau](mailto:raul.cachau@nih.gov)

The ABCS provides innovative solutions over a wide range of  structure analysis tools and support to help accelerate the engineering and structural characterization of advanced materials, and macromolecules including modeling, implementation of hybrid methods (xray, EM, SAXS/SANS), tool development and custom workflows and services

#### The Core Infrastructure and Systems Biology, [Uma Mudunuri](mailto:mudunuriu@mail.nih.gov) and [Chris Wolcott](mailto:chris.wolcott@nih.gov)

The Core Infrastructure and Systems Biology (CISB) group strives to streamline and provide innovative solutions for the NCI/NIH community to access and use biological information collected across different sources and formats. Integrating diverse data sources to enable disease agnostic access and analysis, variant impact annotation, identifier conversions across species, and merging clinical and research data enables translation from basic to the goal of precision medicine.

#### Mathematical and Statistical Analysis, [Brian Luke](mailto:lukebria@mail.nih.gov) and [Randy Johnson](mailto:randall.johnson@nih.gov)

The mathematical and statistical analysis group provides mathematical and statistical analysis and modeling of cancer and HIV/AIDS, including: computational simulations, regression analysis, survival analysis, study design consultation, and parallelization/optimization of analysis scripts.

#### Scientific Web Programming Group, [Michael Loss](mailto:lossm@mail.nih.gov)

The ABCS’s scientific web programming group (SWPG) enables and supports NCI science by providing innovative web application and tool development to assist groups and researchers with managing and tracking data and interacting with data and scientific applications through web interfaces. 

#### CCR and NIAID Collaborative Bioinformatics Resources and CCR-Sequencing Facility Bioinformatics, [Parthav Jailwala](mailto:parthav.jailwala@nih.gov), [Justin Lack](mailto:justin.lack@nih.gov) and [Yongmei Zhao](mailto:zhaoyong@mail.nih.gov)

The ABCS provides a number of core resources to NCI and NIAID investigators. CCBR/NCBR are resources to provide a broad range of bioinformatics expertise to CCR/NIAID PIs and scientists. The analysis capabilities cover a wide spectrum of questions in biomedical research, ranging from basic biology to clinical applications. Typical requests involve the processing, analysis, and interpretation of high-dimensional data sets generated by microarray, Exome-seq, RNA-Seq, ChIP-seq, metagenomics, and mass spectrometry platforms, as well as publicly available data. The CCR-SF specializes in NGS data analysis and quality control, sequencing technology consultation, exploration/assessment of new technologies, and data analysis and management. These core groups work closely together and projects often involve multiple groups.
